
 ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»   ÛÛÛÛÛ»  ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      User's Manual
 ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ» ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ» ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛº ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼     RAR 2.50 DOS and OS/2 versions
 ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ» ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛº ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 ÛÛº  ÛÛº ÛÛº  ÛÛº ÛÛº  ÛÛº     Multifunctional Integrated Archive Manager
 ÈÍ¼  ÈÍ¼ ÈÍ¼  ÈÍ¼ ÈÍ¼  ÈÍ¼     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                       =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                       Welcome to the RAR Archiver!
                       -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


 ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
 º±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±  Introduction  ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±º
 ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼


  RAR is an extremely powerful tool which allows you to manage and
  control archive files.

  RAR features include:-

    *  Full-screen interactive interface (Optional)
    *  Mouse support and menus
    *  Non-RAR archive support
    *  Common 'standard' command-line interface
    *  Highly sophisticated, original compression algorithm
    *  Special compression algorithm optimized for multimedia data
    *  Better compression than other PC tools using 'solid' archiving
    *  Authenticity verification (registered version only)
    *  Self-extracting archives and volumes (SFX)
    *  Ability to recover physically damaged archives
    *  Programmable installation SFX archives
    *  locking, password, file order list, disk volume labels & more ...


 ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
 º±±±±±±±±±±±± Chapter 1.    Installation and Configuration ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±º
 ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼

   This chapter describes how to install and configure RAR, as well as
   giving information on technical requirements.

   1.1. Installation procedure

   RAR is distributed as a self-extracting (SFX) archive named
   RAR???.EXE for DOS version or RAR???P.EXE for OS/2 version where
   '???' is the version number.

   Local language versions may also be available in the format
   RARnnnxx.exe where "nnn" is the version number and "xx" is the
   country code.

   1.1.1. RAR for DOS installation

   RAR for DOS installation consists of three basic steps:-

   ..  Start the RAR Self-Extracting archive

   ..  Choose a directory for the RAR files

   ..  Initiate the RAR installation

   For example, on floppy disk A: you have the file RAR200.EXE, this
   will be RAR version 2.00.  You may install it to your C: disk by
   typing, at the DOS prompt, the following command (executing the RAR
   self-extracting archive):

   C:\> A:RAR200

   You will be prompted with the RAR archive comment.  Press any key to
   continue, or press ESC to cancel the extraction.

   Then you will enter the RAR installation menu.

   Choose "Read license" to view the RAR license for usage and
   distribution.  Pressing <Esc> to return to the installation menu.

   Choose "Destination directory" to enter the path for installation.

   Choose "Install" to extract the RAR files to the destination
   directory.

   When the extraction is successfully completed, a number of files
   will be placed in the destination directory and RAR will be ready
   for use.

   1.1.2. RAR for OS/2 installation

   RAR for OS/2 installation consists of three basic steps:-

   ..  Create a directory for the RAR files

   ..  Make this directory the current working directory

   ..  Execute the RAR Self-Extracting archive


   For example, on floppy disk A: you have the file RAR200P.EXE, this
   will be RAR version 2.00 for OS/2.  You may install it to your C:
   disk by typing, at the OS prompt, the following commands:

   [C:\] mkdir RAR
   [C:\] cd RAR
   [C:\RAR]

   You have now created a new directory, C:\RAR, and it is the current
   working directory.

   Then execute the RAR self-extracting archive:

   [C:\RAR] A:RAR200P

   You will be prompted with the RAR archive comment.  Press any key to
   continue, or press ESC to cancel the extraction.

   When the extraction is successfully completed, a number of files
   will be placed in the current directory and RAR will be ready for
   use.

   1.1.3. Installation hints

   The archiver program itself is named RAR.EXE. This module contains
   all of the archiver's functionality, packing, unpacking, repairing,
   SFX creation etc.

   It is recommended that the name of the directory, containing the RAR
   files, be added to the PATH environment variable. This will enable
   RAR to be used from any directory. Alternatively the critical
   modules of RAR may be copied to your "Utilities" directory.  These
   modules are RAR.EXE and RAR.CFG (RAR.EXE, RAR2.CFG and RARARC2.CFG
   for OS/2 version), although it is not essential, you may copy
   UNRAR.EXE as well.


   1.2. Option menu

   A number of RAR options may be configured and saved to be used as
   default options.  To access this menu, start RAR without any
   parameters and then press Function key 9 (F9) to bring up the
   Options menu:


   C:\RAR> RAR

   When RAR has been started, press F9 - the following menu will
   appear:

          ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
          ³ Configuration...                ³
          ³ Set password              ALT-P ³
          ³ Work directory            ALT-W ³
          ³ Default comment file            ³
          ³ External viewer                 ³
          ³ Change disk               ALT-D ³
          ³ Registration                    ³
          ³ Save options              ALT-S ³
          ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

   Press <Enter> for the sub-menu "Configuration".  The configuration
   menu offers a number of basic options which may be changed.

   In the configuration menu, use the arrow keys to move from item to
   item.  An item value may be changed by hitting the <space> key.
   When all items are set as desired, move to the "Ok" field and hit
   <Enter> to save the chosen values. To discard any changes, move to
   the "Cancel" field and hit <Enter>.

   If you have a mouse attached, this process is even easier.  Simply
   move the mouse cursor to the desired item and click the left mouse
   key. When you have completed the configuration, move the mouse
   cursor to the field " Ok " and click on the left mouse key. To
   discard changes click the left mouse key on the " Cancel " field.


   "Configuration/Interface options"

     Color                  Selects/Deselects color in
                            full-screen mode

     Sound                  Enables RAR's sound effects

     Stdout mode            Forces RAR to run in console
                            (stdout) mode while processing
                            commands from the command line

     Mouse                  Enables the use of mouse-support
                            in full-screen mode


   "Configuration/Archiving options"

     Always solid           Forces RAR to create solid archives which
     archiving              are often very much smaller than "normal"
                            archives.  See RAR_FAQ.TXT for more details.
                            Default is ON and all created archives will
                            be made in 'solid' mode.  If you are making
                            archives which will be frequently updated,
                            the speed of update will be increased by
                            changing this option, at the expense of
                            compression ratio.

     Multimedia             Enables special compression .a
     compression            designed for digital audio and some
                            types of graphic. See '-mm' description
                            for details.

     Put recovery record    If this option is selected RAR will
                            add recovery record to any new or modified
                            archive. See 'rr' command description
                            for details.

 {+} Put Authenticity       Forces RAR to place -AV (Authenticity
     verification           Verification) into archives when they are
                            created. (This feature is only available in
                            the registered version)


   "Configuration/Compression"

   Choose the default compression level from one of the following:

      Store ...... Do not compress file when adding to archive
      Fastest .... Use fastest method (least compressive)
      Fast ....... Use fast compression method
      Normal ..... Use normal (default) compression method
      Good ....... Use good compression method (more compressive)
      Best ....... Use best compression method (most compressive)

   Default is 'Normal' and is chosen as the best compromise between
   time taken and compression ratio achieved.  Marginally higher (0.1%
   - 1.5%) compression may be achieved with 'Good' or 'Best', at the
   expense of 10% - 100% longer processing time.


   "Configuration/Include file mask"

   Choose the categories of files to be included when adding to an
   archive from the following:

       Read only files ..... Add files with 'Read-only' attribute
       System files ........ Add files with 'System' attribute
       Archive files ....... Add files with 'Archive' attribute
       Hidden files ........ Add files with 'Hidden' attribute

   Default is 'Read-Only, System, Archive or Hidden' and is used such
   that ALL files in a directory will be archived if the general
   wildcard (*.*) is used.

   For more information on file attributes, please refer to your DOS
   manual.


   "Configuration/Sort order"

   Choose the sort mode for viewing the archive contents in full-screen
   mode from one of the following:

        Unsorted ......... Do not sort files
        By name .......... Sort files by name
        By extension ..... Sort files by extension
        By size .......... Sort files by size

   Default is 'Sort files by names'.


   "Configuration/Other options"

     Use 386 instructions   Forces RAR to detect the CPU type and use
                            386 CPU 32-bit instructions if an
                            appropriate processor (386 or higher) is
                            available. This option is present only in
                            the DOS version as RAR for OS/2 always uses
                            32-bit instructions.

     Use expanded memory    Allows the use of expanded memory (EMS 4.0).
                            Present only in the DOS version.


     Save extended          Enables the saving of OS/2 extended
     attributes             attributes. Present only in OS/2 version.

 {+} Log errors to file     Enables the logging of critical errors
                            to a file RAR.LOG. (This feature is only
                            available in the registered version)


   "Set password"

   Assign a password which will used when you add/extract files to/from
   an archive.  You may define the password using <Alt-P>. Note, the
   password will not be saved to the configuration file.


   "Work directory"

   The path where RAR will place temporary files.  This may be changed
   at any time by pressing <Alt-W>.


   "Default comment file"

   If you would like a common comment added to every archive you are
   creating, enter the full path and name here.


   "External viewer"

   You may assign an external viewer program to run for viewing file in
   archives (by pressing <F3>).

   While viewing a file of the archive in full-screen mode RAR uses the
   internal viewer if an external viewer has not been configured.

   The internal viewer provides for dynamic extraction of the file.
   This means the viewer extracts only those parts which are currently
   needed for viewing.  As more is needed, more is read, etc.

   While using the external viewer the entire file is extracted before
   actual view.

   "Change disk"

   You may change the current disk displayed in the work window.


   "Registration"

   To register RAR you must have a registration code.  This code may be
   obtained by sending the completed registration form to your local
   registration site or the world-wide distribution center.

   You will receive the latest version of RAR along with your
   registration key and will then be able to create archives containing
   Authenticity verification.


   "Save setup"

   Pressing <Enter> or clicking the left mouse key on this item will
   pop up a small confirmation window in which the user is invited to "
   Save " or " Cancel " the saving of the new configuration for future
   default usage in RAR.

   RAR stores the default configuration in the file RAR.CFG, which is
   held in the same directory as RAR.EXE.

   The configuration may also be saved by pressing ALT-S keys,
   (pressing the "S" key while simultaneously holding down the "ALT"
   key).

   These options may also be set by using the left mouse key in the
   window "Settings":


   DOS version:    ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ Settings ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                   ³   Password                 Absent   ³
                   ³   Compression level        Normal   ³
                   ³   Multimedia compression   Disabled ³
                   ³   Add recovery record      Disabled ³
                   ³   Add AV to archives       Disabled ³
                   ³   Make solid archives      Optional ³
                   ³   Log errors to file       Enabled  ³
                   ³   Default comment file     Absent   ³
                   ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

   OS/2 version:   ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ Settings ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                   ³   Priority and sleep time 0  : 0    ³
                   ³   Save extended attrib.   Enabled   ³
                   ³   Password                Absent    ³
                   ³   Compression level       Normal    ³
                   ³   Dictionary size         256 Kb    ³
                   ³   Multimedia compression  Disabled  ³
                   ³   Add recovery record     Disabled  ³
                   ³   Add AV to archives      Disabled  ³
                   ³   Make solid archives     Always    ³
                   ³   Log errors to file      Disabled  ³
                   ³   Default comment file    Absent    ³
                   ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

   For example, click the left mouse key on the word 'Absent' in the
   setting 'Password', you will be prompted to enter a new password.
   Clicking the left mouse key on the word 'Optional' in the setting
   'Make solid archives' would cause toggle to 'Always' - that will
   force RAR to create solid archives.


   1.3. RAR environment variable

   Default parameters may be added to the RAR command line by
   establishing an environment variable, using the DOS "SET" command.

   Examples:

   C:\> SET RAR=-std -s

   RAR will use this string as default parameters in the command
   line.

   RAR handles options with the following priority:

       command line switches              highest priority
       switches in the RAR variable       lower priority
       options saved in RAR.CFG           lowest priority

   The switches -sfx, -v, -s and -std from the RAR variable have no
   effect in full-screen mode.


   1.4. Technical requirements (DOS version only)

   Minimum DOS version to run RAR: 3.0

   Minimum memory requirements to perform commands and corresponding
   operations (in Kbytes) are:-

    Commands:   ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÑÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
    A,F,M,U     ºCommand line mode ³ Full-screen mode º
                ÇÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¶
                ºNot solid³ Update ³Not solid³ Update º
                ºor adding³ solid  ³or adding³ solid  º
                ºto solid ³ archive³to solid ³ archiveº
   ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ×ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¶
   ºEMS enabled º   337   ³  409   ³  409    ³  481   º
   ºEMS disabledº   401   ³  473   ³  473    ³  545   º
   ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÊÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÏÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÏÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÏÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼

    Commands: CW,E,P,T,X       Command: C
   ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍËÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»   ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍËÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
   ºEMS enabled º   217   º   ºEMS enabled º   409   º
   ºEMS disabledº   281   º   ºEMS disabledº   473   º
   ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÊÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼   ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÊÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼

    Command: D  ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍËÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
                º Not solidº       Solid archive      º
                º archive  ÇÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¶
                º          ºCommand line³ Full-screen º
   ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ×ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ×ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¶
   ºEMS enabled º    217   º     409    ³     481     º
   ºEMS disabledº    217   º     473    ³     545     º
   ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÊÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÊÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÏÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼
   Update AV to non-solid archive will require some extra memory.

    Commands:
    CF,EN,K,L,  ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÑÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
    R,RR,S,V    º  No AV  ³ Add AV º
   ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ×ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¶
   ºEMS enabled º   217   ³  409   º
   ºEMS disabledº   217   ³  473   º
   ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÊÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÏÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼

   If available memory is increased, by 32 Kb or more, over the minimum
   requirements, compression speed will increase. Compression ratio may
   also slightly increase.

   Generally the use of wildcards ('*' and '?') in an archive name or
   argument list from an external file (also with '-x' feature) will
   require extra memory.

   For extracting from and updating non-RAR archives add the memory
   requirements of the external archiver.


   1.5. The external archiver configuration file - RARARC2.CFG
        (OS/2 version only)

   The configuration file RARARC2.CFG is intended to define external
   programs which RAR should call to process ZIP, ARJ and LZH archives.
   Actually it contains three sections for these archivers. This file
   is fully explained with comment line.


   1.6. Errorlevels

   When RAR.EXE quits to DOS it sets the environment variable
   ERRORLEVEL to a value representing the termination status (last
   operation status and reason for exit).

     255   USER BREAK       Ctrl/Break pressed by user

       8   MEMORY ERROR     Not enough memory for operation

       7   USER ERROR       Command line option error

       6   OPEN ERROR       Open file error

       5   WRITE ERROR      Write to disk error

       4   LOCKED ARCHIVE   Attempt to modify an archive previously
                            locked by the 'k' command

       3   CRC ERROR        A CRC error occurred when unpacking

       2   FATAL ERROR      A fatal error occurred

       1   WARNING          Non fatal error(s) occurred

       0   SUCCESS          Successful operation (User exit)


    The self-extracting (SFX) module quits with following codes:

       1   PROBLEMS         Error(s) occurred during extraction

       0   SUCCESS          Successful operation


 ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
 º±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±± Chapter 2.     Using RAR Interactively ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±º
 ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼


   When you execute the command "RAR" at the Dos prompt, you are
   presented with the full-screen interface - this is known as RAR's
   interactive full-screen mode.

   For example, you enter:

   C:\> RAR

   On the right hand side of the opening screen, you will be presented
   with a dialogue box containing the memory status and settings
   window.  This information includes: current compression method,
   password status (present or absent), multimedia compression
   (enabled/disabled), add recovery record (enabled/disabled),
   authenticity verification status (enabled/disabled), default comment
   file .. present or not. OS/2 version settings also include priority
   and sleep time, save extended attributes (enabled/disabled) and
   dictionary size.

   On the left-hand side of the screen you are presented with a list of
   files in the current directory. You can move the cursor through the
   files on the screen by using cursor keys or clicking the left mouse
   button.

   Pressing <Enter> when the cursor is positioned on a directory, up-
   directory ("..") or archive file name, will cause entry to be made
   to that item.

   The following archive types are recognized by RAR: .RAR, .ARJ, .ZIP
   and .LZH.

   Entering an archive, causes the files within the archive to be
   displayed in a similar manner to a directory listing.

   It is therefore possible to "walk through" directories and archive
   files, managing files both in archives and normal directories.

   In "directory" mode, the bottom like of the screen contains
   a menu of functions provided by the function keys.

1-Help 2-Add 3-View 4-Fresh 5-Volume 6-Move 7-Update 8-Delete 9-Option 0-Quit

   The line indicates that you may obtain help by pressing <F1>, add
   files to an archive by pressing <F2>, view files by pressing <F3>
   etc. Press <F10> to quit. These functions are the main command set
   when you are in a directory (not in archive).

   Alternatively, pressing and holding down the <ALT> key will cause
   the display of additional functions:

1-  2-Solid 3-View.. 4-SFX 5-SFXVol 6-SolVol 7-SolSVl 8-Repair 9-SolSFX 0-

   This indicates that Pressing <ALT-F2> may be used to create a SOLID
   archive, <ALT-F3> to view an archive using the internal viewer, etc.

   Also shown, by holding down the <ALT> key, will be the options list:

   Alt-C ... Toggle between color and monochrome mode
   Alt-D ... Select drive
   Alt-J ... DOS shell
   Alt-M ... Select compression method
   Alt-P ... Set password
   Alt-S ... Save setup
   Alt-W ... Set work directory to store temporary files

   The OS/2 version contains two additional options:

   Alt-A ... Select dictionary size
             (see -md<size> description for details)
   Alt-R ... Set task priority and sleep time
             (see ri<P>[:<S>] description for details)

   Pressing keys, other than those which indicate options and
   functions, will put RAR into speed search mode for file names. This
   feature can save a lot of keystrokes when looking for specific file
   names.

   Changing from a directory to an archive will automatically change
   the set of available functions to those which are more suitable to
   those circumstances.

   In "archive" mode the available functions line looks like:

1-Help 2-Test 3-View 4-Extr 5-Comment 6-ExCurD 7-SFX 8-Delete 9-Option 0-Quit

   This line indicates you may obtain help by pressing <F1>, test files
   in archive by pressing <F2>, view file by <F3> etc. Press <F10> to
   quit. These functions are the main set when you are inside (Entered-
   to) an archive.

   Alternatively, when holding down the <Alt> key, the following would
   be displayed:

1-    2-    3-View.. 4-ExtrTo 5-FilCmt 6-AddRec 7-Lock  8      9      0

   Files may be marked/unmarked by using the [Space], [Ins], or right
   mouse key. You may also mark/unmark file groups by wildcards (file
   mask) using the [Gray +] and [Gray -] keys on the numeric keypad.
   Marking a directory, automatically marks all the sub-directories and
   files within it.

   The marked/unmarked status of a group of files may be reversed by
   using the [Gray *] key.  Marking or unmarking a file, or group of
   files, updates a highlighted status display line at the bottom of
   the screen.  This status line indicates the number of files marked
   and the total size in bytes (the file size of marked directories is
   not included in the summary file size).

   In full-screen mode, the use of the mouse is fully supported.  Use
   the left mouse key to move through a directory.  Click the left key
   twice to <Enter>.  Use the right key to mark files.  When entering
   text (archive name, password etc.) the left mouse key cancels the
   data entry operation and right mouse key confirms entered text.  Use
   the left mouse key to choose function commands (F1-F10) of menu
   items and options.


   2.1. In a directory

     F1       Help information

     F2       Add file(s) to an archive, if the archive does
              not exist, it will be created

     F3       View a file (if no external viewer is set, the
              internal viewer will be used)

     F4       Freshen files in an archive - only recently changed files
              will be added instead of their old copies in archive

     F5       Create archive volumes (Span diskettes)

     F6       Add files not already in the archive and update those
              files changed since they were packed to the archive

     F7       Move file(s) to archive

     F8       Repair a damaged archive

     F9       Set up / Save options

     F10      Quit RAR.  Pressing the ESC key has the same
              effect.

     Alt-F2   Create a solid archive.

     Alt-F3   View a file (with internal viewer).

     Alt-F4   Create a SFX archive.

     Alt-F5   Create Self-Extracting (SFX) volumes.

     Alt-F6   Create solid archive volumes.

     Alt-F7   Create solid SFX-volumes.

     Alt-F8   Repair a broken archive.

     Alt-F9   Create a solid SFX archive


   2.2. In an archive

   Press [Enter] with the cursor on the archive name to expand the
   archive contents.  The same effect may be achieved with the command-
   line option "en".   (See Chapter 3, 'en' command)

   Once inside an archive, the list of files is displayed on the left
   side of the screen.  These files may be marked, just as files in a
   directory.

   An asterisk (*) to the left of a file name, indicates that the file
   is password encrypted.

   Below the list of files the status line is displayed. Status line
   contains information about size and number of selected files and
   directories or if no files are selected about the current marked
   file: name, and at the end of status line - compression method,
   dictionary size and ratio.

   The right-hand portion of the screen is given over to a dialogue
   box, which includes information on:  archive name and status,
   presence of comments, encrypted files, recovery record, authenticity
   verification, dictionary size, total number of files in the archive,
   file sizes, compression ratio, the minimum RAR version required to
   extract files and the host Operating System used to create the
   archive.

   For example:

   Dialogue Box:                    Meaning:

   Archive          EXAMPLE.RAR     archive name
   Archive type     Normal          not a 'solid' archive
   Main comment     Present         archive comment present
   File comments    Absent          no individual file comments
   Passwords        Absent          no password encrypted files
   Recovery data    Present         recovery record present
   Lock             Absent          archive is not locked
   Auth. verif.     Present         authenticity verification is present
   Dictionary       64Kb            dictionary size
   Files            1               number of files (1)
   Total length     14917           total length in bytes
   Packed length    3938            length in archive
   Ratio            26%             compression ratio.  Now 26% of
                                    original size.
   Version to extr. 2.00            minimum RAR version required to extract
   Host OS          DOS             OS used to create this archive


   Function keys actions:

     F1       Help information

     F2       Test archive (validate integrity)

     F3       View a file (if an external viewer is not set,
              the internal viewer will be used)

     F4       Extract files from an archive with directory
              structure

     F5       Add a comment to the archive

     F6       Extract file(s) to the current directory

     F7       Make a Self-Extracting (SFX) archive

     F8       Delete file(s) from an archive

     F9       Set up / Save options

     F10      Quit RAR

     ESC      Return from the archive

     Alt-F3   View a file (using the internal viewer)

     Alt-F4   Extract file(s) to an alternate path

     Alt-F5   Add individual file comment(s)

     Alt-F6   Add archive recovery record

     Alt-F7   Lock the archive preventing modifications


   When working with archive volumes in full-screen mode you must begin
   the process with the first volume, you will be prompted with a menu:

   "Proceed with all volumes from current"
   "Proceed with selected files only"

   Choose the method you wish to use to work with the volumes.

   When files are displayed which were split between archive volumes,
   the compressed size displayed refers to the compressed size on the
   current volume.  The symbol '<-' indicates that part of the file
   exists on a previous volume. The symbol '->' indicates that part of
   the file exist on the next volume. You can change to the previous or
   next volume by pressing corresponding arrow keys (left or right).

   2.3. In a non-RAR archive

   In full-screen mode RAR offers the management of non-RAR archives.
   Supported non-RAR archive types are ZIP, ARJ and LZH.

   RAR provides the following operations for non-RAR archives:

    - extract files, creating the directory structure;
    - extract to the current directory;
    - extract to a specified directory;
    - test files in the archive;
    - delete files from the archive;
    - view contents of the archive in full-screen mode;
    - make SFX-archives;
    - add archive comment (ZIP and ARJ only);
    - add file comment (ZIP and ARJ only).

   Also the user may set a password for the archive (pressing Alt-P)
   and the path for temporary files (Alt-W).

   For viewing the archive contents the user will need only RAR.
   However for operations with non-RAR archives the user should have
   the corresponding programs (PKUNZIP, PKZIP, ZIP2EXE, ARJ, LHA, or as
   specified in RARARC2.CFG for OS/2 version), also the path to these
   programs must be included in the PATH environment variable.

   You can use RAR as the archive manager for archives of all the
   above-mentioned types in shell programs such as Norton Commander.

   Note, RAR does not provide facilities for the management of non-RAR
   SFX archives.

   Only the standard LZH archive header is supported.  Archives created
   by LHA using the switch '/h2' are not supported.

 ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
 º±±±±±±±±±±±±± Chapter 3.           RAR Command Line Options ±±±±±±±±±±±±º
 ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼

   Command line mode is an alternative to the full-screen interactive mode.
   This mode is best used in batch files and requires no interaction.


   Usage:


    RAR <command> -<switch1> -<switchN> <archive> <files...>
        <@listfiles...> <path_to_extract\>

   All parameters must exist on the same, single command line.

   command      ..  The function to be performed by RAR, add,
                    extract, move etc.

   switch       ..  Switches used to define a specific type of
                    operation, compression strength, type of
                    archive etc.

   archive      ..  The name of the archive to be operated upon.

   files        ..  The files to be processed.

   listfiles    ..  The name of a file containing the names of
                    the files to be operated upon.

   path_to_extract  Used only with commands 'e' and 'x',
                    indicating the directory in which to
                    place extracted files.  If this directory
                    does not exist, it will be created.

                    NOTE:  The use of the terminating backslash
                           character, on this parameter, is
                           MANDATORY.


   3.1. Commands (Alphabetic sequence)

   ..  a: add files to archive

   ..  c: add archive comment

       Pressing [F10] will save the entered comment and exit.
       Pressing [Esc] will cancel the comment.  Pressing [F10]
       without entering a comment will remove any existing
       comment.

       Comments are displayed while the archive is being
       processed.  The maximum comment length is 16384 bytes.

       Support for ANSI esc-sequences is provided in RAR which
       allows the use of color and cursor movements.  No ANSI
       driver is required to display such comments.

       Redefinition of the keyboard using ANSI esc-sequences is
       NOT supported and thus the so-called ANSI-bombs cannot be
       delivered using RAR.

    Example:

       RAR c distrib.rar

       Comments may be entered from a file by using the '-z<file>'
       switch before the name of the file containing the comment.

       RAR c -zinfo.txt dummy

   ..  cf: add file comments (not to entire archive)

       Pressing [F10] will save the entered comment and exit.
       Pressing [Esc] will cancel the comment.  Pressing [F10]
       without entering a comment will remove any existing
       comment.

       Comments are displayed when the 'v' command is given.
       Comment length is limited to 16384 bytes.

    Example:

       RAR cf bigarch *.txt

   ..  cw: write the archive comment to a file

    Example:

       RAR cw oldarch comment.txt

       The comment from the archive oldarch.rar will be
       written to the file comment.txt

   ..  d: delete files from archive

    Note: If the processing of this command resulted in
       removing all the files from the archive, the empty
       archive would itself be removed.

   ..  e: extract files from archive to current directory

   ..  en: start RAR in full-screen mode and enter an archive

       Usually this command is included in the extension file
       of a shell processor such as Norton Commander:

       RAR: RAR en !.!

    Examples:

       RAR en disk1.rar

       RAR en puppy.zip

       The 'en' may also be omitted, simply start RAR with
       the archive name.

    Example:

       RAR baby.arj

   ..  f: freshen files in archive

       Updates those files changed since they were packed to
       the archive.  This command will not add new files to the
       archive.

   ..  k: lock archive

       Any commands that could change the archive will be
       ignored.

    Example:

       RAR k final.rar

   ..  l: list archive contents (brief listing)

       Files are listed as with the 'v' command with the
       exception of the file path.  i.e. only the file name
       is displayed.

   ..  m: move files and directories to archive

       Moving files and directories results in the files and
       directories being erased upon successful completion of
       the packing operation.  Directories will not be removed
       if '-ed' switch is used.

   ..  mf: move files to archive

        Moving files results in the files being erased upon
        successful completion of the packing operation.

   ..  p: print file(s) to screen (STDOUT)

   ..  r: repair a damaged archive

       Archive repairing consists of two stages. Firstly, the damaged
       archive is scanned for a recovery record (see the 'rr' command).
       If the archive contains a previously added recovery record and
       if the portion of the damaged data is continuous and less than
       N*512 bytes, where N is number of recovery sectors placed into
       the archive, the chance of a successful archive reconstruction
       is very high. When this stage has been completed, a new archive
       will be created, called _RECOVER.RAR

       If a damaged archive does not contain a recovery record or if
       the archive cannot be completely recovered due to too severe
       damage, a second stage is begun. During this stage only the
       archive structure is reconstructed and it is impossible to
       recover files which fail CRC validation, but it is still
       possible to recover undamaged files which were inaccessible due
       to a broken archive structure. Generally this is useful for non-
       solid archives.

       When this stage has been completed, a new archive will be
       created, called _RECONST.RAR

       While the recovery process is in operation, RAR may
       prompt the user for assistance when suspicious files are
       located.

                      Suspicious entry

              Name:  <possibly filename>
              Size:  <size>    Packed: <compressed size>

                      Add it: Yes/No/All

    Answer 'Y' to add this entry to the file $RECOVER.RAR.

    Example:

       RAR r buggy.rar

   ..  rr[N]: add data recovery record

       Optionally, redundant information (recovery record) may be added
       to an archive, incurring a small penalty in archive size, which
       will help to recover archived files in the case of floppy disk
       failure or other data losses. A recovery record may contain up
       to 8 recovery sectors. The number of sectors may be specified
       directly in the 'rr' command (N = 1 .. 8) or selected
       automatically according to the archive size:

                   Archive size       Number of sectors
                     < 50Kb                   2
                     50Kb-500Kb               4
                     > 500Kb                  8

       If damaged data is continuous then each sector is able to
       recover 512 bytes of damaged information, although this value
       may decrease for multiple areas of damage.

       The size of the recovery record may be calculated
       (approximately) as <archive size>/256 + <number of recovery
       sectors>*512 bytes.


   ..  s: convert archive to a Self-Extracting (SFX) type.

       In the Dos environment, this will create a *.EXE file
       which, when executed, will extract the files contained
       within it.

       It is also possible to make an SFX archive as the first
       of a multi-volume sequence, but it should be noted that
       the size will be larger by the amount of the SFX-module.
       Please ensure that the first volume in the sequence is
       created with the correct size.

       Should SFX volumes be created using the command 'a' with
       the switches: '-v[<size>] -sfx', then you do not need to
       ensure the volume size - first volume will be automatically
       created with the proper size.

    Example:

        RAR s diamant

   ..  s<file.sfx>: convert archive to a Self-Extracting (SFX) type
       using alternate SFX module

       You may indicate an alternate SFX module (pathname) to build
       the SFX archive.

       For instance the Installation SFX:

       RAR sidos.sfx myinst
       RAR c -zscript.s myinst

       See the Installation SFX documentation, SFX.DOC, for details
       of the command language of the installation SFX.

   ..  t: test archive files

       This command performs a dummy file extraction, writing
       nothing to the output stream, in order to validate the
       specified file(s).

   ..  u: update files in archive

       Adds files not already in the archive and updates those
       files changed since they were packed to the archive.

   ..  v: verbosely list archive content (full listing)

       Files are listed using the format: full pathname, file
       comment, original and compressed size, compression ratio,
       last update date and time, attributes, CRC, compression
       method with the code of sliding dictionary size and minimum
       RAR version required to extract. The dictionary size is coded
       as following: 'a' means 64 Kb, 'b' - 128 Kb, 'c' - 256 Kb,
       'd' - 512 Kb, 'e' - 1024 Kb.

       To list the contents of all archive volumes, use and
       asterisk (*) in place of the archive file extension.

    Example:

        RAR v multivol.*

   ..  x: extract files from archive to original (relative)
          directory if pathnames exist in the archive

    Command limitations:

       The commands 'd', 'u', 'f', 'c', 'cf' will not operate with
       archive volumes.

       The command 'a' cannot be used to update an archive volume, only
       to create one.


   3.2. Switches  (Alphabetic sequence)

   ..  -?  display help on commands and switches

   ..  -$[drive]  provide volume label support

       When adding to an archive the switch causes the adding of the
       volume label of the current or specified disk drive to the
       archive. When extracting from the archive the switch instructs
       RAR to set the volume label from the archive to the specified
       disk drive or, if not specified, to the drive on which
       extraction has been processed.

       Volume labels are ignored in SFX and the UNRAR utility.

   ..  -ac  clear Archive attribute after compression or extraction

   ..  -ao  add files with Archive attribute set

       Example:

       add all disk C: files with Archive attribute set
       to the 'f:backup' and clear files Archive attribute

       rar a -r -ac -ao f:backup c:\*.*

   ..  -ap  set path inside archive

       this path is merged to file names when adding files to
       an archive and removed from file names when extracting.

       For example, if you wish to add the file 'readme.txt'
       to the directory 'DOCS\ENG' of archive 'release',
       you may run:

       rar a -apDOCS\ENG release readme.txt

       or to extract 'ENG' to the current directory:

       rar x -apDOCS release DOCS\ENG\*.*

   ..  -av  apply authenticity verification (registered versions only)

       RAR will put, in every new and updated archive, information
       concerning the creator, last update time and archive name.

       If an archive, containing authenticity verification, is being
       modified and this switch is not specified, the authenticity
       verification information will be removed.

       When extracting, testing, listing or updating and archive with
       the '-av' switch, RAR will perform integrity validation and
       display the message:

            Verifying authenticity information ...

       In the case of successful authenticity verification, the message
       'Ok', creator name and last update information will be
       displayed.  In the case of authenticity verification failure,
       the message 'FAILED' will be displayed.

       When creating archive volumes with the '-av' switch, Cyclic
       Redundancy Check (CRC) information will be added to each volume.

       The Authenticity Verification feature, '-av,' is recommended for
       use with archives in a software distribution environment.

       In order to enable the Authenticity verification feature, the
       program MUST be registered.  Please contact your local
       distribution site or the world-wide distribution center.

   ..  -av-  disable checking or adding authenticity verification

   ..  -b   enable backup archives

       This switch will create a backup before an archive is modified.
       The backup file will have the same name as the original archive
       but with the .BAK extension.  Should this file already exist,
       the backup file will be named with a .$BK extension.

   ..  -bw  black & white (monochrome) mode

   ..  -c-   disable comment display

   ..  -cfg- disable read configuration and environment

   ..  -col  color mode

   ..  -dh   disable sharing files

       This helps when accessing files open by other applications on
       networks or multi-tasking environment.

   ..  -ds   do not sort files while adding to a solid archive

       Note: see the RARFILES.LST description - solid archiving file
       order list.

   ..  -e<s,h,a,r> set file exclusion attributes

       The switches 's', 'h', 'a' or 'r' signify that files having the
       System, Hidden, Archive or Read only attributes should be
       excluded.  The order in which the attributes are given is not
       significant.

    Example:

       RAR a -ehs purity *.exe

       Do NOT add files with Hidden or System attributes.

   ..  -ed  do not add empty directories

       This switch indicates that empty directories are not to be
       stored in the created archive.

   ..  -ems-  disable EMS usage (DOS version only)

   ..  -ee  disable extended attributes saving (OS/2 version only)

   ..  -ep  exclude paths from names

       This switch enables files to be added to an archive without
       including the path information.  This could, of course, result
       in multiple files existing in the archive with the same name.

   ..  -ep1 exclude base dir from names

       Do not store the path from the command line.

       Example:

          RAR a -ep1 -r pasta tmp\*.*

       All files and directories from the directory TMP will be added
       to the archive 'pasta', but the path will not include 'TMP\'.
       This is equivalent to the commands:

         cd tmp
         RAR a -ep1 -r pasta
         cd ..

   ..  -f   freshen files

       May be used with archive extraction or creation.

       The command string "a -f" is equivalent to the command 'f', you
       could also use the switch '-f' with the commands 'm' or 'mf'.
       If the switch '-f' is used with the commands 'x' or 'e', then
       only old files would be replaced with new versions extracted
       from the archive.

   ..  -ialt  Disables the changing, by pressing the left Alt key, the
       context function key information in the bottom line of the
       screen (in full-screen mode).  This helps some users who wished
       to use certain TSRs while in RAR.  The action of the left and
       right function keys are in other respects, unchanged.  This may
       be permanently configured by adding the switch to the RAR
       environment variable (SET in autoexec.bat) with SET RAR=-ialt

   ..  -kb     keep broken extracted files

       RAR, by default, deletes files with CRC errors after
       extraction. The switch -kb specifies that files with
       CRC errors should not be deleted.

   ..  -m<0..5> set compression method

       -m0   store     do not compress file when adding to
                       archive
       -m1   fastest   use fastest method (less compressive)
       -m2   fast      use fast compression method
       -m3   normal    use normal (default) compression method
       -m4   good      use good compression method (more
                       compressive, but slower)
       -m5   best      use best compression method (sightly more
                       compressive, but slowest)

       By default RAR uses -m3 method (Normal compression).

   ..  -md<size>: select dictionary size in Kb (OS/2 version only)
           size must be equal to 64, 128, 256, 512 or 1024
           or a letter 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' or 'e' accordingly.

       The sliding dictionary is a special memory area used by the
       compression algorithm. If the size of the file being compressed
       (or the total files size in the case of a solid archive) is
       greater than the dictionary size, then increasing the dictionary
       size will generally increase compression ratio, decrease packing
       speed and increase memory requirements.  RAR for DOS has a fixed
       dictionary size of 64 Kb.  RAR for OS/2 (and other 32-bit
       platforms) has a default dictionary size of 256Kb, but this may
       be changed by the user to be 64 Kb, 128 Kb, 256 Kb, 512 Kb or
       1024 Kb.  Unlike compression, extraction speed is unaffected by
       dictionary size.

       The amount of memory required to create large dictionary
       archives may be calculated as 5*<dictionary size>+150Kb. About 1
       Mb is required for extraction and 5*<dictionary size>+1150Kb to
       update solid archives.

       RAR for DOS can extract from large dictionary archives using
       conventional, EMS and disk memory. If no EMS or disk
       cache is available, the operation may slow down significantly. RAR
       for DOS cannot convert large dictionary archives to SFX with the
       default SFX module and cannot update such solid archives.

    Example:

       RAR a -s -mdd sources *.asm
           or
       RAR a -s -md512 sources *.asm

       Will create a solid archive using a 512 Kb dictionary.

   ..  -mm multimedia compression

       Enables a special multimedia compression algorithm. This is
       intended to be used primarily when compressing raw digital audio
       data such as WAV's up to four 8-bit or two 16-bit channels but
       also show good results with true color (24-bit) bitmaps. An
       improvement in the compression ratio, of up to 30%, may be
       expected over normal compression.

       During archiving of a file, in multimedia mode, RAR performs
       intelligent data analysis and may use the general or multimedia
       compression algorithm for different parts of the file depending
       upon which algorithm is the more suitable. Such analysis allows
       optimum performance when different data types exist in the same
       file (This is typical for STM and MOD files).

       The switches -m<N> "Set compression method" and -s "Create solid
       archive" also may be used with multimedia compression but -m<N>
       influences only those parts compressed with the general
       algorithm.

       If -mm is used with data which is not multimedia, the
       compression ratio, generally, will not be changed but, due to
       the multimedia analysis overhead, speed is always decreased. So
       it is not recommended to use -mm with data other than multimedia
       data.

       Note: multimedia compression is designed only for a certain
       file types. E.g. it works well with WAV, STM, MOD and true color
       bitmaps, but will gain nothing for MID, GIF, JPG or 8-bit bitmaps.

    Example:

       RAR a -m5 -s -mm songs *.wav

   ..  -mmf force multimedia compression

       This switch works as the -mm with one exception: it always
       compress files as multimedia independent of the multimedia
       analysis results. Usually this leads to a worse compression
       ratio but may be useful in the hypothetical case when RAR cannot
       correctly detect a multimedia file.

   ..  -o+ overwrite existing files

   ..  -o- do not overwrite existing files (default)

   ..  -p<password> set password

   ..  -p  set password

       The password is case-sensitive. If you omit the password on the
       command line, you will be prompted with:

       Enter password:

    Example:

       RAR a -pmyhoney secret *.txt

       Newly added files will be encrypted with the password 'myhoney'.

   ..  -r recurse subdirectories

       May be used with commands: 'a', 'u', 'f', 'm', 'x', 'e', 't',
       'p', 'v', 'l', 'c', 'cf' and 's'.

       When used with the commands, 'a', 'u', 'f' or 'm', will
       process files in all sub-directories as well as the
       current working directory.

       When used with the commands, 'x', 'e', 't', 'p', 'v', 'l', 'c',
       'cf' or 's', will process all archives in sub-directories as well
       as the current working directory.

   ..  -r0  recurse subdirectories (wildcards only)

       Similar to -r, but when used with the commands 'a', 'u',
       'f', 'm' will recurse subdirectories only for wildcard names.

   ..  -ri<P>[:<S>] set priority and sleep time (OS/2 version only)

       This option is used to regulate system load by RAR in a
       multitasking environment.

       The task priority <P> (possible values, 0 to 128) is the OS/2
       task priority.  Values of <P> are grouped as follows:

                 <P> value      OS/2 <priority class>:<priority level>
                    0                OS/2 default (i.e. 2:0, or <P>=33)
                   1-32              1:0-1:31
                  33-64              2:0-2:31
                  65-96              3:0-3:31
                  97-128             4:0-4:31

       When <P> is equal to 0, the default OS/2 task priority is used.

       The sleep time <S> is a value from 0 to 1000 (milliseconds).
       This is the period of time that RAR will give back to OS/2 after
       every read or write during the packing or unpacking operation.
       The sleep time setting is useful when several tasks with the
       same priority are running in the system.

    Example:

       RAR a -r -sfx -ri0:100 backup *.*

       Execute RAR with default priority and 100 ms of sleep after each
       read or write.

   ..  -rr[N]: add data recovery record

       If this switch is used when creating or modifying an archive, a
       data recovery record will be added to the resulting archive. See
       command 'rr[N]' description for details.

   ..  -s   create a solid archive

       Solid is a special archive type.  Please refer to the appendix
       "Glossary" for further information.

    Example:

       RAR a -s -v1440 -sfx maddy *.*

       Will create solid Self-Extracting (SFX) volumes of size 1440000
       bytes.

       Note: see the RARFILES.LST description - solid archiving file
       order list.

   ..  -s<N>  create solid groups using file count

       Similar to -s, but reset solid statistics after compressing
       <N> files. Usually decreases compression, but also
       decreases losses in case of solid archive damages.

   ..  -se  create solid groups using extension

       Similar to -s, but reset solid statistics if file extension
       is changed. Usually decreases compression, but also
       decreases losses in case of solid archive damages.

   ..  -sv  create independent solid volumes

       Similar to -s, but reset solid statistics as soon as possible
       when starting a new volume. Ignored, if used to create
       non-volume archive. Usually slightly decreases compression,
       but also seriously decreases data losses, when one volume
       in volume set is damaged. In such case you may try to start
       extraction from the next volume after damaged. Note that
       because of internal buffering, sometimes RAR cannot reset
       dictionary immediately after creating a new volume and one or
       more small files in the beginning of new volume may still use
       data from the previous volume.

   ..  -s-  disable solid archiving

   ..  -sfx create Self-Extracting (SFX) archive

       If this switch is used when creating a new archive, a Self-
       Extracting archive would be created.

    Example:

       RAR a -sfx sources *.asm

       This command would create a Self-Extracting archive named
       SOURCES.EXE.  To extract files from such an archive, you would
       simply execute it.  Self-Extracting archives may be processed
       normally using RAR.

   ..  -sfx<file.sfx> create Self-Extracting (SFX) archive using an
       alternate SFX module.

   Example:

       RAR a -sfxidos.sfx -zscript.s myinst

       See the Installation SFX documentation, SFX.DOC for details.

   ..  -std  stdout mode

       All output text is sent to the stdout stream.  This allows
       redirection of RAR output to a file, for example:

       RAR v -std bambam >bambam.lst

         or in 'silent' mode without any output:

       RAR x -std dime 10cents.txt >nul

       Note:  In stdout mode, if an archive comment exists, no delay
              will be implemented when the comment is displayed.

   ..  -tk  do not modify archive date

       Prevents RAR from modifying the archive date when changing an
       archive.

   ..  -tl  set archive date as the date of newest file

       Forces RAR to set the date of a changed archive to the date of
       the newest file in the archive.

   ..  -u   update files

       May be used with archive extraction or creation.

       The command string "a -u" is equivalent to the command 'u', you
       could also use the switch '-u' with the commands 'm' or 'mf'.
       If the switch '-u' is used with the commands 'x' or 'e', then
       files not present on the disk and files newer than their copies
       on the disk would extracted from the archive.

   ..  -v create volumes with autodetected size

       Note: when the switch is used with 'v' or 'l' command RAR
       lists all volumes starting from specified.

   ..  -v<size> create archive volumes

       By default this switch uses <size> as thousands (1000) of bytes
       (not 1024 x bytes). You may also enter the size in kilobytes
       using the symbol 'k', in bytes using the symbol 'b' or
       select one from several predefined values using the symbol 'f'
       following the numerical value. Predefined values can be
       360, 720, 1200, 1440 or 2880 and replaced with corresponding
       floppy disk size.

       If the size is omitted, autodetection will be used.

       If volumes are created on the same drive as the temporary files
       (current drive by default, but may be changed with the switch '-
       w'), the autodetected size becomes meaningless.  In this case
       the volume size must be explicitly defined.

       If volumes are created on a drive OTHER than the drive
       containing the temporary files, then after the first volume has
       been created, the user will be prompted with:

           Create next volume: Yes/No/All/Quit

       At this moment in time, you should change the disks. Answering
       'A' will cause all volumes to be created without a pause.

       The first volume file in a multi-volume set has the extension
       .RAR, following volumes are numbered from .R00 to .R99.

       When extracting or testing a multi-volume archive you must use
       only the first volume name (*.RAR).  If there is no next volume
       on the drive (and volumes are not placed in the same directory
       as the temporary files), the user will be prompted with:

           Insert disk with <next volume name>

       Insert the disk with the correct volume and press any key.

       If while extracting, the next volume is not found and volumes
       are placed in the same directory as the temporary files, RAR
       will abort with the error message:

           Cannot find <volume name>
           Cannot change disk with temporary files

       Archive volumes may not be modified.  The commands 'd', 'f',
       'u', 's' can not be used with Multi-volume sets. The command 'a'
       may be used only for the creation of a new multi-volume
       sequence.

       It is possible, although unlikely, that the file size, of a file
       in a multi-volume set, could be greater than it's uncompressed
       size.  This is due to the fact that 'storing' (no compression if
       size increases) cannot be enabled for multi-volume sets.

       Archive volumes may be Self-Extracting (SFX).  Such an archive
       should be created using both the '-v' and '-sfx' switches.


    Example:

    1. Archive drive C: on floppy drive A:

       RAR a -r -v a:allhard c:\*.*

    (current disk MUST NOT be a:)

    2. Create archive volumes with 1440000 byte size in current
       directory.

       RAR a -v1440 4flopp

       or

       RAR a -v1440 4flopp *.*

   .. -vd erase disk contents before creating volume

       All files and directories on the target disk will be erased when
       '-vd' is used.  The switch applies only to removable media, the
       hard disk cannot be erased using this switch.

   ..  -w<path> assign work directory

       This switch may be used to assign the directory for temporary
       files to another drive.  For example a RAM drive or high
       performance disc.

    Example:

       RAR a -we:\tmp bmps *.bmp

       Temporary files would be created in directory E:\TMP


   ..  -x<mask> exclude files specified by mask

    Example:

       RAR a -x*.bak purearch.rar

       You may specify the switch '-x' several times:

       RAR a -r -x*.arj -x*.rar rawfiles

   ..  -x@<list> exclude files using specified list file

    Example:

       RAR a -x@exlist.txt arch *.exe

   ..  -y   assume Yes on all queries

   ..  -z<file> add comment to archive


   3.3. SFX switches

    An SFX archive module may be handled by the switches:

   ..  -e   Extract from the SFX archive

       The switch is used by default similar to 'x' command in RAR.

   ..  -t   Test the SFX archive

       This is similar to 't' command in RAR.

   ..  -v   View the archive content

       This is similar to 'v' command in RAR.

   3.4. The file order list for solid archiving - RARFILES.LST.

       RARFILES.LST contains user-defined file list which tells RAR
       the order to add files to a solid archive. It may contain file
       names, wildcards and special entry - $default. The default
       entry defines the place in order list for files not matched
       with other entries in this file. The comment character is ';'.

       This file should be placed in the same directory as RAR.

       Tips to provide improved compression and speed of operation:

       - similar files should be grouped together in the archive;
       - frequently accessed files should be placed at the beginning.


 ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ»
 º±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±  Glossary  ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±º
 ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼

   Archive       Special file containing one or more files optionally
                 compressed and/or encrypted.

   Compression   A method of encoding data to reduce it's size.

   CRC           Cyclic Redundancy Check. Mathematical method
                 calculating special checking information for data
                 validity.

   Dictionary    The length of a buffer used to search similarities
   size          (the stage of a compression process) in a file been
                 added to the archive.

   SFX           Archive module used to extract files from when
                 executed. (SelF-eXtracting module), usually in the
                 form of a .EXE file.

   Sliding       See the 'Dictionary size' description.
   dictionary

   Solid         An archive packed using a special compression method
                 which sees all files as one continuous data stream.
                 Particularly advantageous when packing a large number
                 of small files.

   Volume        Part of a split archive. Splitting an archive to
                 volumes allows storing them on diskettes. Solid volumes
                 must be extracted starting from first in sequence.

